Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disease.
If you have type 1 diabetes,
your immune system has destroyed the cells of your pancreas
that produce a hormone called insulin.
Your pancreas is an organ located in your abdomen.
Among its functions,
it produces different types of hormones.
One of these is insulin.
Insulin is produced in patches of tissue
called islets of Langerhans.
The majority of islet cells are beta cells,
which normally produce, store, and release
small granules of insulin into your bloodstream.
Insulin attaches to receptors
on cells throughout your body.
This allows glucose
a form of sugar formed by breakdown of foods
to enter the cells to be used for fuel.
In type 1 diabetes,
the immune system mistakenly destroys
the beta cells that produce insulin.
This means glucose cannot move
out of the bloodstream into cells
to be used for fuel.
This extra sugar can damage your blood vessels and organs.